# Dev Client for development/benchmarking purposes

The mandelbox from this folder runs the protocol client using a X server within Docker, and connects to a Whist portocol server (by default, on the same machine).

## Dev Client Docker container

The Docker container for the dev client is a lightweight mandelbox, created as follows. The Dockerfile for the dev client is based off the base mandelbox, with one notable modification: we replace the `whist-main.service` file in `/etc/systemd/system` with the one from this folder. The `development/client/whist-main.service` service file is mostly identical to its `base/main/whist-main.service` counterpart, with the exception of the script in the ExecStart field. The base/main version runs the `run-whist-server.sh` script (copied to `/usr/share/whist/` on the container from the `base/main` folder), whereas the `development/client/` version will run `run-whist-client.sh` (copied from this folder).

At startup, the execution flow on the Docker container will be:

1.  `base/startup/entrypoint.sh` is executed (as requested by the **CMD** instruction in `base/Dockerfile.20`), and it runs the `systemd` program.
2.  `systemd` will run the `base/startup/whist-startup.service` service, which calls `base/startup/whist-startup.sh` (through the ExecStart field)
3.  `base/startup/whist-startup.sh` will block until the `.paramsReady` file is written into `/whist/resourceMappings`. In the case of normal mandelboxes (e.g. the Chrome mandelbox), this file is generated by the host service through a call to MarkParamsReady in the SpinUpMandelbox function. In our case, we don't create a full mandelbox, so we will generate this file through the script that generates the docker container for the dev client.
4.  `systemd` runs the `base/display/whist-display.service` and `base/audio/whist-audio.service` services, both of which are needed in our container to be able to run SDL (which requires audio/video) from the client protocol
5.  `systemd` runs the `whist-main.service` from this folder (instead of the version from `base/main`), which calls `run-whist-client.sh` through the ExecStart field. Note that this file blocks until `.configReady` is written into `/whist/resourceMappings`, since the application and protocol depend on user configs.

### Building/Spinning up the Docker container with the Dev Client

#### Building

To build the Docker container for the dev client, we use the regular mandelbox build scripts, with a slight modification to build and copy the protocol client instead of the protocol server.

### Naming

This section provides a brief overview on the difference between container name, container ID, mandelbox name and ID, etc...

- The AppName of the mandelbox will be: `whist/development/client:current-build`.
  - The Docker image name consists of the AppName prefix: `whist/development/client`
  - The Docker image suffix consists of the AppName suffix after the colon: `current-build`
  - The Docker image ID is generated automatically to uniquely identify the image
- The MandelBox ID: `mandelbox.GetID()`, as described in `backend/host-service/mandelbox/types/types.go` is a random string that the scaling service creates for each mandelbox.
- DockerID (container ID): provided by Docker at mandelbox creation time.
- Docker container name: it is formed by concatenating the mandelboxID (generated by SpinUpMandelBox) to the AppName (converted to use hyphens instead of characters such as "/" or ":")
